# Against Pickup Artistry

This book makes no secret of being polemic. Its very title designates its target: Pickup Artistry. One should note quickly that the title is emphatically not "Against Pickup Artists". Though this book may call out the work of notable pickup artists, it does so specifically to dissect the media they have produced - specifically the images and methods they have written and spoken into the world - rather than the persons themselves. To its readers, I have a sincere hope that this book feels like a personal conversation. You may identify strongly with its title, or you may identify quite strongly as its opposite. In either case, this book ultimately concerns _relations_ - which may be with oneself as much as they are with others - more than it directly concerns _identitites_. Even where "identities" are stated, they speak more to a fluid relationship with the self and others rather than of a static and unchangeable attribute.

Among other topics of which this book will not hold back is that its author is autistic. It's a category I can find as explanatory as I find it constraining, but these days I can find play in that tension. For decades prior I fumbled with forming relationships and navigating through them, ultimately suffering for lack of language to explain my own unique experience and desire beyond that language which had been scripted for me. Acting out those scripts often left me directionless and confused. Now, I've recovered it as a tool to draw a curious difference between myself and non-autistics, opening space for gentle and bi-directional discussion.

You do not need to be autistic to read and get something from this book. The critical experience we may have in common is alienation, a sense of isolation and of being misunderstood, while nebulously adrift and ill-equipped to to experiment affirmatively and collectively with our situation. The dominant process of socialization didn't so much give us the tools to describe who we are and who we would wish to be, so much as it _told_ us who we are and who we were _expected_ to become. That I believe it likely you have some experience with those feelings makes me confident and hopeful you will find something of value in this book.

This author presents in the world as a gender fluid, largely masc-presenting, non-binary person. It's a turn of phrase which may read unwieldy to some, and full of internal contradictions, but from experience, it is the very ambling clunkiness and variety of internal contradictions that make the practice productive and pleasurable. Coming into a personalized understanding of gender brought me peace and pleasure with aspects of my body which I'd been made to loathe as a child growing up in rural Kansas. My slight wrists, which had been made uncomfortably conspicuous by other boys, I can now adorn with delicately clinking brass bangles. They sing as I absolutely throw down at the techno club in an undulating sea of bodies. 

But you do not have to be queer in gender expression to read and get something from this book. While it may be true that the community of pickup artists includes largely cis-men, pickup artistry as a movement or practice can be understood as a kind of _reaction_ in the guise of a _solution_. A solution to what problem? While pickup artistry promises to be a solution to one's personally identified problem of sexual deprivation, it really takes advantage of a crisis. The general crisis is that of the collapse or implosion of a prior structure of masculinity, which is voiced with impassioned desparation though indirectly in various incel forums and right-leaning self-help sites. Pickup artistry as a movement then is a kind of shoring up and doubling down on one kind of hyper-regressive image of what a masculine body can be and do. But that shoring up frequently leaves its subject like an isolated island, deserted, with shores all around. The effect of the doubling down is so intense, one can't get up to go anywhere else.

The reference to incel communities does mean to include more than cis-men, however. Reaching across the binary gender divide, it references "femcel" communities as well. Though cis-women may not practice pickup artistry as their own method, nor inhabit it as an identity, what all these groups (including myself) have in common is an experience of brutalization under patriarchal capitalism. Ableist, racialized, patriarchal capitalism demands particular performances of strength and submission in order to create a market for the products it pushes, from supplements to self-help books. Its narratives, however, remain arbitrary and reductive. We could do and become something else.

Lastly this author relates intimately to themselves and others as a pan/bisexual. Here also is a pile of internal contradictions. I hold and explore them all at once, not merely alone, but with all the closest ones in my life, to our varying degrees and practices of intimacy. Queer attraction long felt to me like cacophonous noise, one I couldn't readily make sense of. Shortcomings in understanding and being understood left me dejected, even among partners I cared for deeply. Engaging with queer poetry and film, listening to the experiences of my queer friends, really exploring pleasure on my body by myself, and lastly being honest and ever tentatively curious with desire among partners has broadly expanded the ways I can find joy. 

But you do not have to be queer of sexuality to read and get something from this book. Pickup artistry largely assumes a cis-heterosexuality as its model. It's true that broadly, such a model of sexuality works and is satisfying for many people. For persons in the pickup community, given the need to produce tactic after tactic, it's proof that the model indeed does _not_ work for its members. It's proof that the model requires a particular elaboration. But the elaboration that has emerged draws an even more stark circle around the set of practices that are considered sexual. It also draws a stark circle around the kinds of relationships that are considered desirable. All the physical, intellectual, and emotional joy which we might find in our own interests and relationships becomes subordinated under tactics and methods, driven towards a singular and predefined goal. The most frequent one being the "body count".

I think we share ...

This book will be written by a crowd. A group of people inside and outside pickup artists' communities

To any pickup artists, practicing or reformed, ...
